---
layout: page
title: "What-You-Can-Eat-Sushi"
subtitle: "A Personal Essay"
date:   2019-02-06 21:21:21 +0530
categories: personal
author: "Daniel Kim"
---
<div class="wide" markdown="1">

Skipped breakfast. Three glasses of water. No lunch either. Mom’s voice in the back of my head reminds me that missing meals is bad luck back in Korea. Too late now. Stretchy-waisted pants on. My stomach growls as I push open the door. Chimes above jingle to indicate our entrance. The Great Wave off Kanagawa hangs door side, fitting in seamlessly with the other cheap-looking Japanese decor. Empty sake bottles line the walls in groups of three. I can’t tell if they’re real or fake.

Back for Thanksgiving break, I had managed to drag my high school friends on my quest for all-you-can-eat sushi. They came along with the intention of enjoying a nice meal. Not me. I wasn’t leaving until I ate the most sushi my $24.95 could possibly get me. To leave the restaurant without my stomach resembling a small medicine ball would be considered defeat.

Going to Mori Sushi has always been a special occasion for me. Upon seeing the “All-You-Can-Eat” at the top of the menu, I would struggle to suppress my smile in anticipation of the feast that awaited me. Pools of saliva would fill the crevices of my mouth at the prospect of eating as much soft-shelled crab and eel as my heart desired.

Unfortunately, it’s the same story every time. Ordering too many rounds of sushi topped with calorie-rich ingredients like spicy mayo and fried tempura flakes, I would feel the contents of my dinner slide down my esophagus and sit unsettlingly in the pits of my stomach. Unable to clear my plate, I had no choice but to be creative; from wrapping a handful of Spicy Tuna rolls in a napkin to smashing parts of a California roll in my soy sauce, I pioneered my fair share of clever schemes to hide the extra food I couldn’t devour. No matter how smart my tactics were, however, I would still end up with the shame of incurring the $4.95 surcharge imposed on customers who order more than they can consume. Once, I had stuffed myself with so much rice and fish that I had to rush to the bathroom, food coming out the same way it went in. None of this deterred me, though. I mean, what’s the point of all-you-can-eat if you don’t eat all you can eat?

The waitress shows us to our table and hands us a half-sheet slip of paper on which to order. The table is shaky. My eyes intensely scroll through the myriad of options, categorizing the types of nigiri and sashimi I know my tongue would savor.

“Dude, I can’t tell if you’re trying to order food or study the periodic table,” one of my friends jokes. Chuckling, I lightly punch his shoulder but don’t dare take my eyes off the menu.

Dragon Roll. Pink Lady. Summer Roll. My hand, equipped with a tiny golf pencil engraved with the name of the local country club, glides effortlessly down the seemingly endless list. My stomach growls again. I take it as a cue. Check marks next to numerous variations of raw fish and rice. I even go as far as ordering the Godzilla roll, a deep-fried, Frankenstein-esque concoction stuffed with everything from cream cheese to avocado. 

“It’s a marathon, not a sprint. Take it easy, man,” another friend teases.

The waitress, armed with a pitcher of water, fills each of our glasses to the brim. She picks up the slip of paper and raises an eyebrow.

Half-jokingly, she asks, “Why, though?”

I shrug my shoulders.

“Just getting my money’s worth.”

My friends laugh. She takes the slip to the sushi chef in the back, who, upon seeing the flurry of checkmarks, sighs audibly and begins to rock his long, slender knife over a slab of salmon.

Why, though? Simple question, right? In my mind, Extra Food + Same Price = More Bang for My Buck. Might as well make the most out of the opportunity. Plus, even if I did have a propensity towards putting too much on my plate at times, my unchallengeable love for sushi justified it. But for some reason, her question unsettles me. Sure, sushi is delicious. Deep inside, though, I knew there was a point where each piece I popped into my mouth brought less of a smile to my face than the last. Is it really worth it to inhale a whole tray’s worth of food when my body is doing everything it can to tell me to stop? Where had my penchant for overdoing it come from?

My parents immigrated to America in the spring of 1996, arriving in the suburbs of New Jersey with nothing but four chestnut brown suitcases. Wanting better lives for their future children, my parents abandoned the comfort of their families and the stability of their homeland in pursuit of uncertain aspirations across the globe.

As a child, I quickly learned to abide by the rules and regulations of my Korean-American family. Not a single grain of rice left in the bowl. Can’t miss a single day of school. Korean school on Saturdays, not Super Mario Bros. Though my parents never explicitly mentioned the sacrifices they made for my brother and me, their message was unmistakable: the opportunities we have created for you should be taken full advantage of.

Hearing my dad come home from work past midnight through the garage door, I would reach for my chemistry textbook again, studying stoichiometric calculations and the periodic table even as my eyelids sank heavily over my pupils. Receiving a Yamaha YCL-255 clarinet for which my parents had budgeted themselves for months, I practiced the works of Mozart and Beethoven for hours on end, until my central incisors pierced the inside of my lip, causing blood to run across my tongue. Wanting to make the track team in middle school in the brand-new, blue Saucony shoes my mom had gifted me, I ran and ran, until my Achilles tendons couldn’t handle the weight of another step. It was always there. An unspoken pressure to do everything that I could. More than I could.

Cognizance of the life my parents had left behind in South Korea to move to the United States is both a blessing and a curse. Sure, I should make the most of my opportunities. It’s great to do the extra problem. So is practicing the supplemental hour or running the additional mile. But pushing too hard means getting to a point where it hurts more than it helps. No matter how much I love chemistry, music, or sports, is it really better to study that hard, play that long, or run that far? The line has to be drawn somewhere. Sometimes, it’s okay just to do enough.

Noticing that I’m gazing off towards the window, my friend pokes me. “You good, dude? The food’s here.”

Nodding, I pull my chopsticks out of their sleeve and break them apart. I notice that, intentionally or not, the sushi chef had forgotten a decent number of the rolls I had ordered. My friends don’t seem to notice. I don’t say anything. I rapidly get to work on the mountain of food using the two wooden chopsticks, mechanically depositing each piece in my soy sauce-wasabi mixture and subsequently in my mouth. By the time I fit in the last piece of Philadelphia roll, my hunger is satiated, but I definitely have room for more.

The waitress picks up the empty tray that once showcased our heap of sushi. She looks at me, thoroughly impressed that the skinny Asian kid in front of her had taken down a couple days’ worth of sushi in less than an hour.

“I’ll leave this here in case you want more.” 

She pulls another order slip out of her back pocket and slides it across the table. My friends, contently rubbing their stomachs, toss the paper in my direction. Like a feather, the sheet floats back and forth in the air until it falls face up in front of me.

I raise the list of endless permutations of rice, seaweed, fish, and vegetables to my face. I know that I could eat more. Get a little more bang for my buck. I place a hand on my already slightly-ballooned stomach. Gently, I put the pencil back on the wobbly table. 

“Can I get the check, please?” 
I had eaten enough.

</div>
