---
layout: page
title: "Floating Alone"
subtitle: "A Personal Essay"
date:   2019-07-28 21:21:21 +0530
categories: personal
author: "Daniel Kim"
---


On the crisscrossing sidewalks of the New Haven Green, I wade through the clouds of skunky marijuana smoke near the bus stops, past benches of half-slumped figures with empty bottles of vodka resting on their stomachs, in search of someone to talk to. The park’s towering flagpole casts a shadow over an unaccompanied, six-foot tall, African-American man with a pair of thick, black, rectangular-framed bifocals. Upon sitting on the grey stone bench with him, I can barely make out his face as his body angles away from me. I learn his name is Mark. Besides his jet-black boots, which he twists into the muddy soil beneath him, all of Mark’s clothes are in some shade of blue: his navy twill trousers wrap tightly around his legs, his cobalt ski jacket flaps gently with the wind, his teal lanyard—holding a ring of keys and an “I ♡ New York” keychain—jingles whenever the cold winter air forces a violent sneeze out of him, and his royal blue beanie tightly hugs the oval circumference of his bald head. With his hands, dotted by calluses, he twirls a piece of paper proclaiming God’s love, given by a passing man, into a tight roll and subsequently tears it up into ant-sized pieces, creating a miniature mound in his palm. After about a minute of exchanging pleasantries with me, Mark turns to me with his eyebrows scrunched and barks, “What do you really want?!” I respond by requesting to interview him. Immediately, his face softens. As he slowly nods his head, I look into his once hardened eyes, now swimming with life. “Tell me about yourself,” I ask.
<br/>
***
<br/>
Mark Kaiser was born and raised in Bridgeport, the biggest city in Connecticut and a 25-minute train ride from New Haven’s Union Station. The Kaiser family was headed by Fitzgerald, a chauffeur for Westport “rich white folk,” and Geneva, a nurse at the Bridgeport Hospital. The youngest of seven children, Mark wasn’t like the rest of his siblings; while they were outside racing steel go-karts or collecting different types of rocks by the town’s train tracks, Mark opted to spend time with his mother. “I was a mama’s boy,” Mark tells me.  “I loved my mother. I would do anything for her.” Mark’s mom was his best friend; from her, he learned everything from the family’s secret spaghetti recipe to the technique of knitting a winter scarf.
Mark participated in the Boy Scouts and never missed a day of school, rarely getting into trouble. He was always the quiet type, preferring his own company to that of others. “I always hung out by myself. Ever since I was little. By myself. I always been like that.” While talking about his school days, Mark never refers to anyone as his friend, but rather as just some person he knew. 
Mark was a star athlete, crowning himself as the best basketball player in his school. Despite his former athletic prowess, Mark couldn’t swim to save his life, failing (indeed, once almost drowning during) high school swimming class. “I was good if I just put my feet in. I would panic if I stick my head in the water.  If my head was in there, panic. I can’t do it.”
<br>
***
<br/>
Mark tells me he sits at the flagpole because it’s near the city’s Community and Resource Center, where he is taking computer classes. He doesn’t have a job, but he managed to get an apartment with the government’s help. Mark doesn’t talk to the other folk around the Green much since they always ask to stay at his place. “If you bring someone over, they gonna want to come over all the time,” Mark tells me, shaking his head.
At 59, Mark isn’t married. He insists some women at the Green are into him, but he fears taking them home and waking up only to find them gone, along with his possessions. “Women out here, they get you all screwed up,” Mark says to me, throwing his hands up disparagingly. “These street women out here? Come on, how are you going to get anything good out of these women out here. I’m a lonely guy, but I’m alright. I’d rather be lonely than get in trouble.”
<br>
***
<br/>
When Mark was 15, he came home from school one day only to find his mother had died from a heart attack in front of the TV. Mark’s father, overcome with grief from the loss of his wife, developed a drinking problem, and, a year later, died of a bad liver. “When my parents died, I started changing,” he told me. “I was cussing people. I was angry. Angry. Angry. Disrespecting people. I gave up.”  Dropping out of school, Mark dove into a life of drugs to take his mind off the glaring hole the loss of his parents had created. Desperate to get his next sniff of coke or his next pack of blunts, Mark educated himself in the art of burglary, extracting radios, microwaves, and other electronics from surrounding neighborhoods and turning them into puddles of cash. Mark was contently seesawing between getting high and stealing until one evening, with his neighbor’s television draped over his shoulders, he found himself engulfed by the shadows of two policemen, cast by the flashing lights of their vehicles. At 18, Mark received a sentence of three years for burglary at the Cheshire Correctional Institution.
When Mark talks about his time in jail, his fingers start violently picking at the sea of calluses on his palm like a hungry bird pecking at a bag of feed. While the other inmates got into fights with fellow prisoners and guards, Mark learned to lay low. Earning money at the jail’s kitchen, he bought a TV for 90 dollars. “Every time somebody fights, they locked everybody in. So I said, ‘Fuck it, I’m staying in my cell and watching TV.’ That way, I don’t get in trouble.” In between sentences, Mark repeatedly mutters about how much prison messed him up, his words barely riding the warm air of his breath into my ears. “I told myself, I ain’t ever coming back. I told myself that everyday.”
<br>
***
<br/>
Most of the regulars on the Green shrug when I ask them about Mark Kaiser. The few who do know him don’t have much to say. “Big Boy,” a stout, white-haired man with a broken pair of glasses hanging crooked on his nose, tells me in between taking swigs out of his bottle of Cruzan Light Aged Rum, “There are a million fucking ways to get high here. Pills. Joints. Needles. But Mark don’t do none of that. Mark just sits here. Alone.” 
“There ain’t no friends out here,” Frank, a slender man wearing baggy jeans, explains to me. “Only people that you know. Especially for people like Mark.”
Back alone under the flagpole, I ask Mark why he doesn’t immerse himself in the Green’s pool of pedestrians. “They nice people,” Mark concedes. “But I don’t want to be getting into trouble. They doing shit that gets them into trouble.” Mark wags his finger at the Clerk’s Office on Elm Street. “I don’t want to be in that courthouse. It’s easy to get in trouble. It’s hard to get out.”
<br>
***
<br/>
In his early twenties, Mark stepped out into the world with a freshly-minted criminal record. Bouncing around from Stamford to Norwalk and everywhere in between, Mark submerged himself in any work he could find: frying chicken at Popeyes, washing dishes at the local deli, collecting potatoes at nearby farms, working construction. Prolonged periods of unemployment, however, forced Mark to sleep on the couches of his siblings’ or friends’ apartments. After nearly 40 years of floating around without his own place, Mark came to New Haven. With the help of Connecticut’s Section 8 Housing Choice Voucher program, Mark got his own apartment for the first time at the age of 57. “When I signed the paper the lady gave me for the apartment, I hugged the lady about 10 times. I said thank you so much.”
<br>
***
<br/>
The next time I see Mark—once again sitting alone under the Green’s flagpole—I offer to buy him a cup of coffee at the Starbucks on the corner of Elm and Church. As we tread simultaneously into the cafe, Mark stretches his semi-toothless grin and hugs me. He proudly boasts about a blue-striped scarf he had just finished knitting at home. “But it does gets boring sitting around the house all day sometimes,” Mark confesses, his smile sagging slightly. Mark makes it a point to talk about how much he wants to find a job and “do something productive.” He tells me maybe it wouldn’t be bad to have a nice friend. To not be alone for once. “We should go to the beach sometime. I could never swim. I’m good if I put my feet in but I panic if I stick my head in the water. Maybe you could teach me how to swim some day.”
