---
layout: page
title: "Two For Dinner"
subtitle: "A Personal Essay"
date:   2019-07-28 21:21:21 +0530
categories: personal
author: "Daniel Kim"
---


6:25 P.M. Crunch time. I pop open the oven door—a wave of dense, moist heat rushes towards my face as I pry open the lid of the dutch oven housing my bubbling beef roast. I run a fork through the fibers of the meat and to my delight, there’s no resistance; the metal tines glide through the strands of beef smoother than a knife through butter. I sprinkle on a dash of dried thyme, one of the few western herbs my mom admits into the shopping cart on our monthly ShopRite trips: outings I incessantly badger her for. Beside me, my mother, her legs askew to avoid the jutting oven door, pulls some blanched spinach out of a pot of water at a roaring boil. The bright green chlorophyll is on full display as she drizzles a splash of soy sauce over the wilted leaves. We maneuver around each other almost comically in the kitchen, which was clearly not designed for multiple bustling bodies, scrambling to get everything at the right seasoning, the right temperature, the right presentation at the last minute. As the headlights of my dad’s Honda CR-V flash through the windows, the shrill whistle of the rice cooker goes off, bursting out a rocket of steam signaling our charge to the dinner table with our dishes. On our perfectly round dining table with two sets of mismatching tablemats, lies a delectable but confused feast: on one side, creamy mashed potatoes, a decadent pot roast, creamed greens and on the other, a neatly curated grid of Korean banchan—kimchi, du-bu, sigeumchi namul.

<br/>

For as long as I can remember, most of the dinners in the Kim household have resembled something like this crazed culinary joust. The race to dinner has been maddening routine where I would usually undergo some task such as folding some elbow noodles in a valley of mayonnaise and splashing in some apple cider vinegar to hone in the western flavors of my macaroni salad while my mother would massage a nest of clear sweet potato starch noodles in with thinly julienned matchsticks of carrots and peppers, raining down some sesame seeds to put the final touches on her Korean japchae. My mother and I would operate separate corners in our nightly culinary showdowns. Mountains of dirty bowls in the sink, it was a scene more closely resembling a dramatic interpretation of MasterChef rather than a Wednesday night in a suburban New Jersey kitchen. My brother and my father served as the nightly impromptu judges, navigating through our mishmash of a tasting menu pairing American classics with Korean staples: mushroom risotto and spicy braised monkfish head; sausage-stuffed chicken breast and crispy, lacy, fried mung bean pancakes; and a million other dinner table combo unheard-ofs.

At first, when I first started cooking as a curious and ravenous sixth grader, I stood no chance; my mom’s years of practice feeding two hungry boys informed each of her calculated hand movements. Her sturdy fingers wrung the water out of quickly-blanched bean sprouts and painted layers of seaweed with a thin, glossy coatings of fragrant sesame oil that perfumed her food with not just an aromatic scent, but also an authority my culinary creations seemed to lack. Unlike my mother, I did not cook Korean food. In elementary school, my mom’s hand-rolled kimbab or stir-fried myeolchi in my lunchbox attracted the judgmental glares of my classmates, forever etching into my memory the sight and scent of fermentation, spice, shame, and chagrin brought upon this food concocted an ocean’s length away, tucked into my Tupperwares. I turned to my school’s lunches instead. Hamburgers, chicken wraps, mozzarella sticks, and baked ziti—tickets into a world where my food didn’t raise any eyebrows or draw pointed fingers. 

Thus, when I did start cooking, it was largely in an effort to further entrench my place in this newfound world. I pored over hours of culinary tutorials on Youtube—Jamie Oliver, Wolfgang Puck, Nancy Silverton, you name it—following their every knife stroke like a hawk, memorizing the steps that transformed their ingredients into mouthwatering masterpieces. At my biannual trips to the dentist’s office, I flipped through the only copy of Bon Appétit magazine I could get my hands on, snapping pictures of every stunning page on my mom’s iPhone to peruse at home. Dishes that previously never saw the light of day on our dinner table became integrated into my culinary vocabulary; Shepherd's Pies and Beef Wellingtons were now recipes that whet my appetite and anchored me to a world that was now my reality, not a world that could have been. Despite my best efforts, however, I never succeeded at pushing Korean food off the table, my mother’s undeniably delicious delicacies finding a place in everyone’s chopsticks but mine. 

<br/>
***
<br/>

At our amalgamation of a dining table, as I eat my pot roast or grits or pasta or potatoes, my mom often hands me a bowl of gomtang or a mound of kimchi or whatever gastronomic relic from her former home she conjures up. “Mah-ni muh-guh, eat a lot.” my mom says, circling her slender bamboo chopsticks towards her mouth. I shake my head. In my fragmented Konglish,  I explain to her that like the soybean stew and buffalo chicken wings or knife-cut noodles and pepperoni pizza we had encountered in previous meals, they weren’t bo-uh, complements: words in our mutant language emphasizing that these combinations from worlds apart don’t mesh, piercing words I don’t realize until much much later do not show on her face but on her heart. I am scared to break the rules: rules that I knew my classmates who ate from one culture instead of two instinctively played by, rules I so desperately wanted to claim as my own as well. 

<br/>
***
<br/>

To an unacquainted observer, my mother may appear to be the type who has cooked since she could walk, a fact seemingly revealed by her experienced palate that could tell you exactly how much more soy sauce a dish needs and the knife skills of a seasoned line cook. This couldn’t be further from the truth. My mother grew up in a family of non-cooks; my grandmother, raising her children in post-war Korea, rarely had the means to cook, instead deferring to cheap food stalls and the traditional Gwangjang street market to feed boiling-hot fish cakes and mini kimbap to her daughters. When my mother moved to America with my father who was pursuing his PhD, her only cookbook was a postcard-sized journal scribbled with some rushed recipes of some of her favorite dishes including jeyuk bokkeum and doenjang-jjigae: the messy hangul characters, highlighted by stripes of stray rice wine and chili flakes and worn out after years of finger tracing, likely would have carried over onto a few more pages had she known that her American sojourn would turn into a 25 year stay. 

My mother—her demeanor quiet and reserved—rarely ever spoke about herself, making these things unapparanent to me growing up. When I turned 18, on a trip to South Korea with my mother after my high school graduation, I first heard of my mother’s stories: my aunts giving an oratory account of her history that revealed a side of her I never knew. “We don’t know how she began cooking so much, but she always loved giving food, '' says my eldest aunt, her silky Seoul accent intelligible from my time spent absorbing K-Dramas that function as background noise in Korean hair salons. “Who would’ve thought that your mom would have to go all the way to America to cook this well!” my grandma chimes in. 

Despite the hot and humid Seoul weather, I spent most of my time following my mom around the markets she grew up eating and shopping, most of which are barely a subway stop away from my grandmother’s apartment. Her Korean, still just as immaculate as that of any of the locals, helped her bargain for varieties of seaweed and fish she couldn’t have dreamed of encountering in the States. She pointed out miyeok-guk she ate every birthday, tteok she packed home every Lunar New Year: celebration treats that she also brought to my brother and me growing up. The whole trip, she almost never stopped cooking, stuffing my relatives with the same dishes I grew up with—kimchi, du-bu and sigeumchi namul—until they couldn’t fit another grain of rice in their stomachs. Only then, did I see my mother and her food in a new light.

Through this new lens, I realize that in America, my mother learns that without a kimchi refrigerator, she would have to tightly mummify the jar of heavily-fermented kimchi with leftover plastic shopping bags to wall in its pungent, sour, spicy smell in. In America, she struggles to pronounce the “r” when asking for “red pepper flakes,” only to be disappointed that American kind is coarser and more bitter compared to gochugaru.  In America, my mother drives two hours north to Fort Lee, to find Korean pears, crisper and sweeter than their American counterparts, and scallions from the mainland, stockier and more vibrant than the ones sold elsewhere. In America, she labors to recreate the flavors of celebration, of comfort, of a home long gone yet close by, for my brother and me. In America, our Korean food is not bo-uh to our surroundings, we are not bo-uh to this land filled with faces that do not resemble our own. Yet my mother’s Korean cooking somehow always makes its way to the table. Her food persists.

<br/>
***
<br/>

It’s winter break. I’m home from New Haven for the first time; the month-long hiatus from college affording me some time to cook. 6:25 P.M. Tonight’s meal? A hearty red-lentil ragu from NYT Cooking to combat the cold. My mother brings out some kimchi-jjigae and a sizzling pan of galbi, or marinated short rib (using the flanken cut since nobody has the traditional L.A. cut in Korean BBQ), generating the same crackle, the same “oohs” and “aahs'' from my father that fajitas at a Tex-Mex joint do. As expected, my mother lays out a bowl of the kimchi stew in front of me. “Mah-ni muh-guh, eat a lot” chopsticks motioning towards her face. My brother and dad are too preoccupied to eat, but to my mother’s shock, I nestle a jiggly piece of tofu coated in red pepper flakes and with a single pasta noodle. My mouth is confused. I stomach it.
