---
layout: page
title: "Specially Produced American Meat"
date:   2022-11-06 21:21:21 +0530
categories: food
author: "Daniel Kim"
---

Han Ah Reum, the largest Asian supermarket chain in the U.S., is known for its prominent selection of ingredients; from *gochugaru* to *kombu* to *Chinkiang* vinegar to *mirin*, a myriad of products graced by a jumble of Korean, Chinese, and Japanese characters stack higher than the eye can see. Amid the sea of a million other items you won’t find at your run-of-the-mill grocery store, it's impossible to miss the lone English letters in the store—SPAM—their capitalized nature drawing even more attention than they already would have. Yes, *that* SPAM, the infamous canned lunch meat similarly you probably have come across at your local Walmart or ShopRite. The Minnesota-born blend of pork, salt, water, sodium nitrite, and modified potato starch seems out of place here at Han Ah Reum, but make no mistake: it’s one of its bestsellers. Growing up in a Korean immigrant household, I have fond memories of bringing armfuls of these cans home, frying up the squares of the processed meat, and eating them with a generous squeeze of Heinz ketchup for a quick meal, the tangy, tomatoey punch balancing the fatty, rich meatiness of Spam. 

The nostalgic notes of Spam go farther than its distinctly evocative and salty punch; for so many of us Asian-Americans, it represents what it is like growing up in the States with immigrant parents. Ask an Asian kid what their parents cooked them when the refrigerator contents were on their last legs, and more likely than not, Spam will find its way into the conversation. When our parents work long nights, covering late shifts to save up for school supplies and piano lessons, pan-seared slabs of Spam make up the trusty go-to dinners to feed our ravenous siblings. When we tell our parents that the college dining hall food was hard to stomach, conveniently-sized, individual portions of porky goodness make their way into the care packages neatly prepared and shipped from home. When our parents can’t read any of the English labels on the grocery store items, Spam finds its way into the shopping cart: the distinct midnight blue and canary yellow packaging symbolizing a familiar relic from a world long gone. In the midst of the turbulence and uncertainty navigating a land that does not claim us as its own, a bite of Spam is akin to a warm hug on the coldest of nights: it’s the ultimate comfort food.

What was unknown to me growing up—and I’m sure also to many other ravenous Asian-American children eating Spam primarily for its satisfying savoriness—was Spam’s painful roots and complicated history: the story behind its transformation from an American staple to a bittersweetly beloved ingredient in the Asian culinary diaspora. Spam was invented in 1937, an idea born out of a desire to salvage the excess pork cuts that butchers couldn’t sell. The product really took off only four years later when Japan attacked Pearl Harbor, escalating World War II into a global conflict and spreading American troops all over the Asia Pacific. The blocks of processed, uber-salty meat followed the American soldiers wherever they went—SPAM’s canned nature allowing for preservation in warm, humid climates.

It was through this dissemination across the Pacific theater that many Asians had their first encounters with the luncheon meat, many of which grew out of unfortunate and dire circumstances. Koreans and Filipinos, on the brink of starvation in their war-torn countries, rummaged through dumpsters only to discover Spam and other processed meats that would feed their hungry families. I remember hearing tales from my grandfather, a soldier stationed near an American base in Seoul during the Korean War, about bringing cans of Spam back home, the “strong and foreign” taste captivating taste buds and filling stomachs; wide-eyed, I couldn’t believe he was talking about the same porky goodness I had grown up with. Hong Kong, a battleground between the Allied and Axis powers, had meat in meager supply, turned to Spam as an inexpensive substitute. Encounters with Spam for Asians in the West are tinged with a history of despondency as well; Japanese Americans came across Spam in internment camps during World War II, where they were forcefully relocated by the American government. An ingredient procured out of desperation and necessity, Spam quickly became a cheap and reliable protein integrated into native cuisines.

The remnants of these culinary adaptations are quite clear. In Korea, you’ll find thick slabs of Spam boiling away in the chili-based broth of *budae-jjigae*, also known as “army stew” since many of its ingredients were born out of the harsh consequences of wartime. In Hong Kong-style diners, line cooks slice up strips of Spam to sear and place on top of Campbell’s Cream of Chicken soup. In the Philippines, *Spamsilog*, a combination of the luncheon meat, fried rice and an egg, is the unrivaled comfort food across the nation’s 7,640 islands. In Japan, rounds of Spam are placed between hamburger buns at Burger Kings and served as a delectable breakfast item. Out of suffering, resilience, and assimilation, Spam blossomed into a vast array of gastronomical innovation. And as Asians uprooted their lives for the promise of the American Dream, they brought with them their *budae-jjigaes* and *Spamsilogs*: tastes of reassurance, whispers of flavors from home. Both in the past and present, cans of Spam have become our pillar of stability in the face of adversity taking all kinds of forms.

In the Western world, especially outside of Asian immigrant communities, Spam doesn’t have as good a reputation. To many, the gelatinous slab of “mystery meat” may be off-putting and unrefined; processed and chock-full of salt, Spam does not hold up in the age of Mediterranean diets, veganism, and other health fads. Years ago, Anna Weaver wrote in a *Daily Herald* article that “[i]f you’re like most Americans, you’re probably gagging at the thought of Spam-scented air” and the world-renowned Gordon Ramsay proclaimed that his journey to chefhood began as an effort to escape the “sliced, disgusting Spam” his mother served him. Memories of my peers shooting skeptical glances at my Spam-abundant lunches aren’t difficult to recall, along with the occasional comments about its “gross” or “slimy” nature. This perception is not aided by widely perpetuated xenophobic myths about Asian diets, such as the mass consumption of dogs in South Korea or COVID-19’s ties to Chinese bat soup, a dish that doesn’t even exist in the country’s cuisine, nor by the fact that Spam is generally regarded as a poor man’s food, the cheap, castaway cousin to grass-fed beef and free-range chickens. If the well-circulated saying “You are what you eat” is any indication, the much-maligned meat product doesn’t bode well for the Asian mouths eating it, perpetuating ignorance about their cuisines, their lives, and their communities.

Hostility of this nature towards the Asian-American community persists to this day, a fact exacerbated more recently by the COVID-19 pandemic’s roots in China. Anti-Asian hate crimes have increased by nearly 150% in the past year, with women and the elderly particularly targeted. Appalling videos of men urinating on Asian women in the NYC subway system or strangers screaming “Go back to where you came from!” at Asian aunties have circulated across social media platforms. Most recently, six women of Asian descent were murdered in a brutal hate crime at Atlanta-area massage parlors. It is difficult to make sense of these occurrences in a land that our parents toiled and labored to make their home, especially when reputed institutions like Harvard University respond to such events by telling their Asian students on Anti-Racism resources “You may wish that you weren’t Asian.” Yet, to bow down, to give up, is not an option for us, in the same way it was not for generations that preceded us. To run from the identities that have shaped us to our cores is impossible, every bite of Spam grounding us in memories of family, home, and love: perseverance in a preserved form.

In light of this endless barrage of exhausting headlines, I find myself more and more often in the kitchen: a place of refuge, a place where, growing up, my Asian mother could show me love without a single word spoken. Like my ancestors have before me, I reach for a can of Spam, uncorking the top and banging the can upside down on the counter to watch the block of meat and its jelly-like gloops slowly slide out. Considering the odds, this block of Spam shouldn’t be here; it's more likely that the excess pork scraps congealed into this coagulated block would have been discarded in a meatpacking facility or boiled down into some canned, instant stock. Yet, it sits on the cutting board in front of me. In the only way I know how, I slice them into thick slabs and fry them; the pockets of fat and gelatin render out, allowing the dense, porky substance to press firmly against my ripping hot pan and become enough to scrape against the tines of my fork. The edges caramelize into a dark golden-brown and the potent currents of the Maillard reaction perfume every corner of my kitchen. Atop a bed of rice, I plate the slices of Spam: boldly flavorful, indisputably delicious, and unwaveringly itself.
