---
layout: page
title: "Cookbook Review: In Bibi’s Kitchen"
date:   2022-11-06 21:21:21 +0530
categories: food
author: "Daniel Kim"
---

When I first opened Hawa Hassan’s *In Bibi’s Kitchen*, I would be lying if I said I knew what to expect. Besides the handful of times I’ve tried African food, most of those being Ethiopian—the most popular and visible sub-Saharan African cuisine—I couldn’t tell you a single dish besides injera. I would have laughed if you told me the most widely-eaten food in Somalia is spaghetti and would have guessed that Comoros was the name of a car model, not a country. To someone familiar with East Africa and its culinary traditions, this may sound ridiculous, but I imagine I am not the only one who has made these mistakes.

African food has often been left out of the conversation in a food media industry dominated by white faces and unsurprisingly, western food. In July of 2020, Hassan revealed on her Instagram that she presented a fully realized pitch to *Bon Appétit*, one of the leaders in the industry, for a segment called “Hawa At Large,” where she would make African dishes and talk to guests about African cuisines and cultures. Instead of pursuing this series, *Bon Appétit* shot three episodes with her as a token example of diversity and compensated her $400 per video, significantly less than what her white colleagues received. Additionally, the little media coverage that African food has gotten has been far from laudatory. In 2008, Robert Sietsema, longtime restaurant critic for the *Village Voice*, wrote that “Africans vastly prefer tough, tough meat” and “eat tree snails that are so tough you would have difficulty distinguishing it from a section of rubber tire.” Yet, *escargot* is considered haute cuisine, right?

Reading about Hassan, a native Somalian who moved to Seattle through a refugee program at the age of seven to escape civil war, I was not surprised to find her such an outspoken advocate of her native cuisine. Food such as thin Canjeero or Suugo Suqaar draped over a bed of spaghetti were strong connections to memories of family and home growing up, a link that pushed her to start her own hot sauce line Basbaas with Somalian flavors. When Hassan decided to write *In Bibi’s Kitchen*, she aimed to use her platform not just to shed some light on her country’s food, but also to draw attention to those of the surrounding nations bordering the Indian Ocean: Eritrea, Kenya, Tanzania, Mozambique, South Africa, Madagascar, and Comoros. The few cookbooks that have featured African food such as Dyna Eldaief’s *The Taste of Egypt*, Nargisse Benkabbou’s *Casablanca*, and Lopè Ariyo’s *Hibiscus* have spotlighted food from individual countries, many of which are on Africa’s west coast. “There are barely any cookbooks published by American publishing houses that feature African food, let alone food from one of the many parts of that continent,” writes Hassan in the book’s introduction. With the sub-Saharan African immigrant population rapidly increasing in the United States, understanding and tasting different types of African food is an excellent way to connect with these groups as they become increasingly integrated into our communities. This is especially important now that xenophobic sentiments have proliferated, abetted by polarized politics, emphasizing the need for cultural curiosity and empathy now more than ever.

In filling the void of African cooking in food media, Hassan takes it one step further and chooses to spotlight only *bibis*: Swahili for grandmother. In fact, every single one of the recipes is from one of 16 *bibis*, with Hassan merely using her platform to project these matriarchs’ voices and uplift the women comprising the culinary backbones of their nations. Moreover, she seeks to illustrate the complete African experience, not just the recipes born out of a vibrant spice trade, but the accounts of community and resilience that have shaped the bibis and their cooking. In a series of interviews, Hassan asks the *bibis* what their food tells them about themselves, what treats they grew up eating, and what defines community. From Ma Abeba in Nairobi to Ma Gehennet in Yonkers to Ma Shara in Zanzibar, these matriarchs unearth their tales of migration, war, refuge, and loss along with the recipes of skillfully-spiced Firfir, beautifully-browned Kicha flatbread, and coconut and cardamom-infused Kaimati that tie them to a sense of home through it all. Still frames of these matriarchs and their food—grandchildren in one arm and spatulas in the other—portray the women who have cooked thousands of meals, who have mastered the recipes that nourished their families. In an unprecedented display, *In Bibi’s Kitchen* champions the women doing the everyday cooking in their households and preserving the culinary traditions and oral recipes of their homes.

While many of the recipes may be unfamiliar to the American palate, the ingredients are more accessible than one might think, a result of many of the bibis being immigrants; displaced from their homes by war and political conflict, they morphed the flavors of home to what was available. The base of many dishes includes staples such as red onion, tomatoes, ginger, garlic, and ghee, all of which I can easily find in standard grocery stores. Hasan and the bibis also present alternatives to certain elusive ingredients native to East Africa. In Mozambique’s ubiquitous Piri Piri sauce, for example, the book notes that while piri piri chilis might be traditional, red Fresno chilis are easier to come across in the United States and a perfectly fine substitute. Hassan also explicitly states that besides a *jebena*, a traditional coffee pot used in a particular freshly roasted Eritrean coffee recipe, there is no “unusual or highly specific equipment” needed. Hassan targets an audience unfamiliar with East African cuisine and its wealth of diverse flavors, focusing on removing the obstacles that have made cooking and eating African food so difficult for Americans to this day.

The largest exception to this amenable trend of accessibility and ease is the spices. Hassan comments extensively on how the Indian Ocean is the backbone of the spice trade, immensely influencing how these cultures cook and eat. The Berbere and Xawaash spices mixes are the main blends featured in an abundance of dishes; Hassan does provide the spices necessary to make the blends from scratch—turmeric, cinnamon, cumin to name a few—in an attempt to make it slightly more accessible, but as a college student with a cramped kitchen, I had to bite the bullet on the $10 price tag through Amazon for a premixed combination. It is likely, however, that in a well-stocked pantry, most of the spices are commonplace, a fact that Hassan stresses as she encourages me to see my own flavors in my food, my story in her tale, my grandmother in her *bibi*.

Hassan’s *In Bibi’s Kitchen* also excels at educating, offering information on geography, religion, climate and resources of the eight nations. Before each chapter of recipes, Hassan expertly explores these places, encapsulating their climates, histories, and geographies in a manner that spotlights them and their food. Reading these blurbs reveals that it is through French settlement lasting over a century that the technique of making a vanilla sauce in Comoros is reminiscent of Parisian kitchens or that the Italian colonization of Somalia in the late 19th century introduced pasta and Italian sauces. Hassan is not only communicating a list of weekday dinner go-to’s; her belief shines through that educating myself about the things I cook in the kitchen is not only an enriching experience in regards to the food on my plate, but to my life as well. 

*In Bibi’s Kitchen* was published in October of 2020, amid a global pandemic and following a period of widespread protest in the form of the Black Lives Matter movement. The BLM movement particularly spotlighted voices in the black community, catapulting *In Bibi’s Kitchen* into the public eye in a way few cookbooks authored by black chefs featuring their food have. Additionally, as the global COVID-19 pandemic revealed the uncomely sides of our food systems, showing how fragile and discriminatory it can be, Hassan, the *bibis*, and this book offer a glimmer of hope that we can inject new faces, flavors, and stories into our lives and emerge more knowledgeable and nourished at the end of it.

As I finished flipping through all eight countries’ recipes, I realized that while I had opened this cookbook for some dinner recipes to satiate my curious palate, I had ended with something else unexpected. With each pot of Doro Wat stewing in my kitchen, each photograph of a *bibi* expertly seasoning a dish, each story capturing my attention, I became deeply entrenched in a culinary and cultural tradition refreshingly new yet strikingly similar to my own ingredients and experiences. *In Bibi’s Kitchen* is an unyielding declaration that these women will show their food and their lives on their own terms for anyone with an inkling of interest. Despite a political climate that has repeatedly dehumanized them, Hassan and the bibis warmly open the doors to their kitchens, their homes, and their communities. I, for one, am glad to have entered them.

